MARS provides an alternative to AJAX for problems involving the solution 
of systems of algebraic equations. Both AJAX and MARS employ a damped 
Newton iterative scheme and hence both automatically invoke the evaluation 
of first partial derivatives in the calculus model.

The range of application of the two solvers is roughly identical. 
Both are suitable for under-, over-, and exactly-determined problems 
and both may be used when ill-conditioning of singularities reduce 
the rank of the problem.  The principal distinction arises in the 
very common area of overdetermined systems, examples of which include 
regression analysis, parameter estimation, and process identification, 
or more generally, least-squares optimization.  AJAX addresses such 
problems by forming the normal equations and then solving the resulting 
square system by taking the pseudo-inverse through an orthogonalization 
method.  Conversely, MARS directly solves the rectangular system by 
a QR-decomposition technique employing householder elementary transformations. 
This method involves rather more computation than AJAX, although there is a
compensating increase in precision.

The major benefits of MARS are twofold.  First, it is a more stable 
computational scheme and is less impacted by the errors arising in 
large and/or poorly scaled problems. More importantly, it is far 
less subject to difficulty when the problem is ill-conditioned. Since 
the condition number of the normal system is the square of that of 
the basic problem, overdetermined systems are often ill-conditioned 
when the method of AJAX is used. Another area of advantage to MARS 
involves boundary value problems (simulation nested withing AJAX/MARS
correlation) in which the equations are very sensitive to the boundary
conditions.

The FIND statements for MARS and AJAX are identical and both employ 
the same control variables.  

A point to note in using MARS is that the influence of control variable 
TAU is somewhat different from the case of AJAX due to their different 
algorithms. Effectively, MARS takes a less conservative view of computational
error, as is consistent with its relative stability. Thus, for the same value 
of TAU, MARS may converge more rapidly than AJAX but with 
a larger solution norm.  When necessary, tighter solutions may be 
obtained by reducing DELTA and/or TAU. For overdetermined systems, 
control variable ZERO has little influence since constraint convergence 
is rarely possible.
