AJAX solves the general algebraic equations 
by successive approximation of the unknowns.  The model procedure 
is executed iteratively until the constraints are matched to zero 
within a specified tolerance.  During each iteration of this process, 
the approximation of the unknown vector is computed according to the
"damped" Newton formula employing the inverse of the Jacobian matrix
(whose columns are the gradient vectors of the constraints) evaluated
during the previous Newton iteration, to forecast a step change in the
unknowns vector. This step change is then reduced by a dampling factor,
and subiterations are taken in the Newton direction using the damped step,
finding the nearest approach to the zeros of the constraints in that
direction. Thus if the function is locally non-quadratic, causing the
undamped Newton method to oscillate, damping will compensate for it.

AJAX will solve systems of equations which fall within any of the 
three classes of simultaneous equations
(1) Determined systems - equal number of equations and unknowns,
(2) Overdetermined systems - more equations than unknowns, and
(3) Underdetermined systems - fewer equations than unknowns.

For determined systems, the Newton formula employs the true inverse of
the square Jacobian matrix. In the actual computation of AJAX, the inverse
is not determined, per se, rather its equivalent combined form is computed 
by a process known as sequential orthogonalization. The net effect 
is the same as if the inverse were determined, but is more efficient.

If the equations have more than one solution, as is usually true of 
nonlinear equations, the particular solution obtained will be the 
one nearest to the initial approximation of the unknowns 
(the values of these variables upon initial execution of the model 
procedure).

For overdetermined systems, no true solution exists. However, AJAX assumes
that the greater number of equations represent redundant approximations to
the equations and solves the system by the method of least squares. Again,
the particular solution obtained will be the one nearest to the initial
approximation. In this case, the matrix employed is the pseudo-inverse 
of the Jacobian matrix. This matrix which has all of the relevant properties
of a true inverse when used in place of a true inverse, even though the
Jacobian matrix is singular or nonsquare, and its true inverse does not exist. 

For underdetermined systems, the number of equations is fewer than the number
of independent variables. The equivalent situation can also occur in
determined (square) systems if the equations are unstable (ill-conditioned). 
Loosely stated, a system of equations is numerically unstable if small changes
in the coefficients of the equations produce large changes in the solution. 
Apparent changes in coefficient values could arise due to the precision of
matrix inversion. In either case, underdetermined or ill-conditioned, an
infinite number of solutions exist. However, by minimizing the Euclidean
norm (sum of squares of the risidual deviations from zero) of the unknowns,
AJAX will find one of a finite number of smallest least squares solutions to
the nonlinear equations.  The particular solution obtained will be the one
nearest to the initial approximation of the unknowns. In this case this case,
the matrix used in the Newton formula is the pseudo-inverse of the Jacobian
matrix. In essence the underdetermined case is a minimization problem in
which the Eucledian norm is the objective function to be minimized.

In the case where the equations to be solved are linear, there is only one
solution for each of the determined, overdetermined, or underdetermined/ill-
onditioned cases.  The linear solution is achieved in a single execution of
the model by AJAX.
